In 2026, getting health insurance is not just a
formality.  In today's times,
considering hospital bills, medical inflation and lifestyle diseases, there should be a
policy which is useful not only in brochures
but also in real life.  And
this is the most common confusion when it comes to premium plans.  It would be
better to take HDFC and Optima Secure or ICICI
Low LMB Elevate Plan.  One plan
promises double and triple cover from day one while the
other offers advanced benefits like unlimited resets and surrogacy.
In today's video, we will do a very practical comparison of these two plans
without any
marketing hype so that you can take a clear decision till the end as to
which plan is
best for you and your family.  Before we
move ahead let me quickly introduce
myself. I am Soni Chauhan and welcome to
Policy Hub.  Where we
make health insurance simple,
transparent and stress-free.
If you have any confusion regarding health or term insurance,
please book a free consultation with IRDI certified policy experts through the link given in the description.  Here you
get genuine guidance without any sales pressure so that you can
take the right decision for your family.  And if you
like such real, honest and practical insurance reviews then do not forget to
subscribe to the channel and like and
share the video.  Also, if you
want to see detailed insurance reviews in English language, then check out our English
Policy Hub channel.  Link
is given in the description.  Now let's start the
comparison directly without wasting time.  First of all, let us
talk about the
background and claim strength of the company
because the real test of insurance is at the
time of claim.  HDFC ao Health
Insurance is a joint venture between HDFC LED and Germany-based Ago
International AG.   The
company has a claim settlement ratio of around 99%
and has more than 15,000 network
hospitals.  Due to which the experience of cashless treatment
generally remains smooth.
ICIC LBD is the flagship general insurance company of the ICIC Group.  The
brand value of the company
is very strong and its network is
also very wide.  Which includes more than 10,000
network hospitals.  The
claim settlement ratio is around 97%.
ICICI Low LBA has a solid presence in both corporate and retail segments.
If we
look at purely claim track record and health focus dominance, HDFC has a
slight edge over Error.  While ICICI Low LBA
is also reliable,
HDFCO's focus in the health insurance segment seems more clear.
Now let's talk about their
eligibility and policy structure.
In both the plans, the adult entry age
starts from 18 years and there is
no maximum age limit.
Dependent children are covered from 91 days to
25 years in HDFCO Optima Secure and from
91 days to 30 years in ICICI Labord Elevate plan
in family floater plan.
Both the plans
are available on individual and family floater basis.  Talking about the sum, sums ranging
from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 2 crore are available in Optima Secure
and
sums ranging from Rs 5 lakh to unlimited are available in Elevate plan, which is
quite relevant keeping in mind the medical inflation of 2026.  The policy
tenure is available for a maximum of three years in the Optima Secure plan
and a maximum of five years in the Elevate plan.  The
premium is divided into two zones in Optima Secure
and four zones in Elevate plan.
Unlimited sum
insured and five year policy tenure
makes Ellevate aggressive and flexible.
Optima Secure's limited but
structured approach provides long-term peace of
mind.
Both the plans fall in the premium category at the basic coverage level.
In both, inpatient
hospitalization, day care procedures,
domiciliary treatment and organ donor
expenses are fully covered.  There is no submission of
room rent and ICU charges at HDFC Ergo Optimus Secure.
Which
means that you can select the room according to your comfort and doctor
's recommendation.
Whereas in Elevate plan
maximum single private AC room
is available.  You can remove this limit with the But Room Modifier add-on.
ICU
charges are fully covered in this plan.
Both the plants include AYUSH treatments as
well as modern treatments like robotic
surgeries and ambulance
charges are also available in both the plants.
Optimus Secure provides cover for
60 days pre-hospitalization and
180 days post-hospitalization.   The
company also covers the air ambulance expenses up
to Rs 5 lakh.  Whereas in the Elevate plan,
pre-hospitalization cover is 90 days and post-
hospitalization cover is 180 days.  But the
benefit of air ambulance is available only through Adamam.  If
seen, the coverage quality
is strong in both the plans.  But
Optima Secure's inclusion in the air ambulance base
plan provides a practical advantage.
Now let's come to the unique benefits section.
This is where the two plans
clearly differ from each other.  The
most powerful feature of HDFC Ergo Optima Secure
is the Secure Benefit.  In which your sum insured gets doubled automatically as soon as the policy
starts without any waiting period.
If you select a three-year policy
tenure,
you get triple cover from day one through the Super Secure benefit.  Along
with this, restore benefit
is also available in which the same amount is automatically restored for the same illness and the same person.  The
coverage through Plus Benefit
increases by 50% every year and gets locked in for life on reaching 100%.
Whether there is a
claim in the policy or not.  Protect
Benefit covers non-payable items
which is very useful at the time of claim.   The
highlight of the ICICI LMB Element plan
is the unlimited reset benefit which
works for both same and unrelated diseases.  Along
with this, guaranteed cumulative bonus
is also available.  20% of sum insured every year
and maximum up to 100% which is
not reduced even after claim.  The most unique feature of the Elevate plan
is the in-patient treatment cover for the surrogate mother and oocyte donor, which
is still available only in limited plans.   You
can also avail up to 30% discount on renewal premium through wellness program.  If you need high coverage from day one,
Optima Secure clearly comes out ahead.
But
for specific needs like fertility planning and surrogacy, the
Elevate plan becomes a strong choice.
Now let's move on to the add ons.
Optima Secure's add-ons are
designed around the family life cycle.
With the Limitless feature, you
can make unlimited claims once or twice.
Conditions like diabetes, BP, asthma and cholesterol can be
covered through ABCD Chronic Care Benefit after just 31 days.
Parent Wood Rider also covers expenses like maternity, IVF
and embryo storage.
Apart from this, options like OPD, mental
health support, aggregate deductible,
critical illnesses, unlimited restoration
and personal accident are also available.
Whereas in the Elevate plan, the ads are quite
extensive and customizable.  Unlimited claims are available
once in a lifetime through Infinite Care.
Power Booster
increases your sum assured by 100% every year.
Without any upper limit.  Jump
Start add-on covers pre-existing diseases
after just 30 days.  Additionally,
features like BeFit OPD Rider, Inflation Protector, Nursing at Home, Compassionate Visit, Durable Medical Equipment and Teleconsultation also make this plan an advanced
ecosystem.  Optima Secure
add-ons are more structured and
suitable for long-term family planning.
While Elevat is better for those who
want highly customized protection.  Visit our YouTube channel to
know about the add ons in detail.
Separate detailed reviews of both these plans
are also available there.  Now let's talk about the
discounts that make both plans even more
affordable.  HDFCO Optima
Secure offers a loyalty discount of 2.5%, a
family discount of 10%, and a long-term
policy discount.  In which, if you
take two and three year policies together, then a
maximum discount of up to 10% is applied on the premium.
Many discounts are also available in ICICI LBD 11 plan.
In this you get wellness discount
up to 30%, long term discount up to
15% and early renewal discount up to 2.5%.
Additionally, you
can avail additional discount based on your CIBIL score,
maximum up to 15%.  Next is the waiting
period which is an important part of every health insurance plan.
Both Optima Secure and Elevate plans have an
initial waiting period of 30 days.   A
waiting period of two years applies for specific diseases and maternity and a maximum of three years for pre-existing diseases.
But through ABCD Chronic
Care and Germ Start benefits,
you can cover conditions like diabetes, BP, asthma and cholesterol only after 31 days.  Which is very customer
friendly.  Now let's talk about premium
because it is an important factor in selecting a plan.
If we
look at HDFC R Go Optima Secure, this plan
is divided on the basis of tier one and tier two cities.  The premium for the family floater plan for two members aged 30 and 25 is Rs
21,356 in tie-one city
and Rs 17,949 in tie-two city.
Whereas in ICIC LBAD Elevate
Plan, for the same age and family size, the
premium is Rs 10,994 in Zone One, Rs 9953 in Zone Two, Rs 9432 in Zone Three and Rs 12,596 in Zone Four.  If seen, this base
is quite affordable as per the premium market.
Optima Secure is a bit expensive from the premium point of view, but
with it you get double cover or triple cover from day one
, unlimited restoration and
cover for non-payable items.  Which justifies this premium.
Also, by taking a long term
policy, you
also get discounts from the company which
further optimizes the overall cost.  On the other
hand, the base premium of Elvet
is quite competitive.  But as you
add add-ons, the premium naturally
increases.  Wellness discounts
provide some relief, but the final
premium largely depends on your customization and
choice of add-ons.  If we
look at the overall picture honestly, both HDFC
Ergo Optima Secure and ICIC LMB Elevat
are excellent health insurance plans.  The only difference is
which plan matches your life planning.
If you want
your family to have strong and
predictable protection from day one and
avoid any confusion at the time of claim, Optima
Secure is a solid long-term choice.
If you prioritize flexibility, fertility-
related coverage, unlimited resets, and
customization, then the
ICIC LBA Elevate plan is a better option for you.
Health insurance does not just mean
buying a policy but also
getting a piece of mind at the time of claim.  If
you are still confused about which
plan will be best for you, then book a free consultation with
Policy Hub's IRDI certified experts using the link given in the description.
And yes, if you
like the video then like the video.
Share with family and friends and do
n't forget to subscribe to the channel for latest updates and also visit
our English YouTube channel for updates in English.
Its link is also
given in the description.  See you
in the next video with another real honest and
practical insurance review.  Till then
stay aware, stay protected and
stay insured.